Let's now add some material to the bottom of the cabinets here I'll select that and what I can do is
just instead of creating a new material I can pull this menu down.
And it gives me a list of the materials I've already created.
So if I select the cabinets here you can see that that whole thing is given the cabinets material.
However I don't want the whole thing to have the cabinet.
So what we can do is come in here and tab into edit mode and I'm going to change to face mode by pressing
control tab and hitting the three key.
And now I just hover over one of these faces and hit the L key and that selects that whole piece.
So even though these pieces are all one object the lower cabinets here have been split into different
pieces.
And by hovering over one of the components and pressing the L key I can select just that piece.
So now will do is let's create a new material for the countertops.
I think I'd like this to be kind of a white marble type of material.
So with this selected one I'm going to do is create a new material slot and we can have multiple material
slots for each object.
So this object contains the material for the cabinets down here.
But let's also create a material slot and click new here for the countertop as well.
And we are now we can click a sign and that assigns that new material to the countertop.
Now once again I think I'd like it to be a little bit shiny or so I'll come over here to the node editor
and let's add a glossy and also a mix Shater.
I'll add those in.
And here we go.
So now you can see we've got some refl. happening for that kitchen counter.
Now that's not bad but I think I want to increase the roughness here.
Take that up a bit.
There we go.
Now for these handles here I think what I want is some sort of more metallic material.
So let me just pan up a bit tumble around here and move in a little bit closer to our handles.
And now I can come through and hovering over each of these press the L key and I'll just select each
of these little handles.
Now that those have been selected let's create a new material slot will create a new material in that
slot and we'll call these drawer handles.
Now we need to set up our node tree for this particular material.
I can add a new note up here by pressing shift a and choosing shader glossy.
And also all press shift a and choose a mix Shater as well and we go.
Now I need to apply this or a sign that material to the handle's click a sign.
And there they are.
Now I think for these I'd like the roughness to come down in the glossy and maybe move that factory
up 2.6 or something like that so we get a little bit more of a glint off of those handles.
So not only can you add material to an object but you can add multiple material slots to an object and
then assign the materials in each slot to collections of faces on the object.
So let's take a look at this utensil container.
I'll zoom in and I'll also zoom in over here also selected here and zoom in here as well.
So let's add a base material first for the container.
I'll add a material.
Call it utensil container.
And for this I want it to be fairly white and fairly shiny so I'll add a glossy and a mix.
Drop it in
and I don't think I want it to be that white.
Maybe I'll bring it down just a little bit in the gray and take that mix shade or down a little bit
and I'll bring the roughness of the glossy up as well.
And that kind of spreads out the specular a highlight on the container.
Now I'll go in and select each of these individual pieces within the utensils container and assign a
new material slot to them.
So for this spoon here let me tumble around just a bit so we can see it for this spoon Alt-Tab into
edit mode.
I'll hit the L key to choose this whole piece and I'll add a new material slot.
I'll call this let's call it metal spoon
assign the material bring in a new glossy as well as a mix
and connect these up.
I'll take the roughness down quite a bit and maybe take the mix factor up as well.
So we get some reflection in that material.
The next one I'll do is this spatula I'll select that piece of the object with the L key give it a new
material slot and in New material we'll call it spatula will assign it and we'll give it just a little
bit of a gloss with a glossy and a mix
and something like this.
Now if you'd like to see what material you have on what piece of the object you can always come over
here and select or de-select the objects I can de-select that spatula choose the metal spoon and select
it and you can see I only have that material on this object.
I think I'll try and put a wood colored handle on our spatula handle here or create a new material slot
new and I'll call this I'll just call this would sign it and let's go ahead and add our nodes Once again
I'll just bring in a glossy and mix
and here we go now take the color to kind of a brown ish and I'll take that glossy this way down I can
also increase the roughness in the diffuse Shater here and that'll give it a little bit more of a texture
to it or at least the illusion of it.
Now what we can do is go ahead and add that same material to these other pieces here.
I'll go ahead and select this this and this with the L key.
And now let's click a sign with the word material selected.
And there we go.
So in this way we can go through and select each of our objects and the pieces within each of our objects
to assign the materials we want.